doc/user/project/issues/index.md, before:

# Issues

Issues are the fundamental medium for collaborating on ideas and planning work in GitLab.

## Overview

The GitLab issue tracker is an advanced tool for collaboratively developing ideas, solving problems, and planning work.

Issues can allow you, your team, and your collaborators to share and discuss proposals
before, and during, their implementation. However, they can be used for a variety of
other purposes, customized to your needs and workflow.

Issues are always associated with a specific project, but if you have multiple projects in a group,
you can also view all the issues collectively at the group level.

**Common use cases include:**

- Discussing the implementation of a new idea
- Tracking tasks and work status
- Accepting feature proposals, questions, support requests, or bug reports
- Elaborating on new code implementations

See also [Always start a discussion with an issue](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/03/start-with-an-issue/).

## Parts of an issue

Issues contain a variety of content and metadata, enabling a large range of flexibility
in how they are used. Each issue can contain the following attributes, though not all items
must be set.

<table class="borderless-table fixed-table">
<tr>
    <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Content</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Title</li>
                <li>Description and tasks</li>
                <li>Comments and other activity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>People</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Author</li>
                <li>Assignee(s)</li>
            </ul>
            <li>State</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Status (open/closed)</li>
                <li>Confidentiality</li>
                <li>Tasks (completed vs. outstanding)</li>
            </ul>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Planning and tracking</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Milestone</li>
                <li>Due date</li>
                <li>Weight</li>
                <li>Time tracking</li>
                <li>Labels</li>
                <li>Votes</li>
                <li>Reaction emoji</li>
                <li>Linked issues</li>
                <li>Assigned epic</li>
                <li>Unique issue number and URL</li>
            </ul>
       </ul>
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

## Viewing and managing issues

While you can view and manage the full details of an issue on the [issue page](#issue-page),
you can also work with multiple issues at a time using the [Issues List](#issues-list),
[Issue Boards](#issue-boards), Issue references, and [Epics](#epics-ultimate)**(ULTIMATE)**.

Key actions for Issues include:

- [Creating issues](managing_issues.md#create-a-new-issue)
- [Moving issues](managing_issues.md#moving-issues)
- [Closing issues](managing_issues.md#closing-issues)
- [Deleting issues](managing_issues.md#deleting-issues)

### Issue page

![Issue view](img/issues_main_view.png)

On an issue's page, you can view [all aspects of the issue](issue_data_and_actions.md),
and modify them if you you have the necessary [permissions](../../permissions.md).

### Issues list

![Project issues list view](img/project_issues_list_view.png)

On the Issues List, you can view all issues in the current project, or from multiple
projects when opening the Issues List from the higher-level group context. Filter the
issue list with a [search query](../../search/index.md#issues-and-merge-requests-per-project),
including specific metadata, such as label(s), assignees(s), status, and more. From this
view, you can also make certain changes [in bulk](../bulk_editing.md) to the displayed issues.

For more information, see the [Issue Data and Actions](issue_data_and_actions.md) page
for a rundown of all the fields and information in an issue.

For sorting by issue priority, see [Label Priority](../labels.md#label-priority).

### Issue boards

![Issue board](img/issue_board.png)

[Issue boards](../issue_board.md) are Kanban boards with columns that display issues based on their labels
or their assignees**(PREMIUM)**. They offer the flexibility to manage issues using
highly customizable workflows.

You can reorder issues within a column. If you drag an issue card to another column, its
associated label or assignee will change to match that of the new column. The entire
board can also be filtered to only include issues from a certain milestone or an overarching
label.

### Epics **(ULTIMATE)**

[Epics](../../group/epics/index.md) let you manage your portfolio of projects more
efficiently and with less effort by tracking groups of issues that share a theme, across
projects and milestones.

### Related issues **(STARTER)**

You can mark two issues as related, so that when viewing one, the other is always
listed in its [Related Issues](related_issues.md) section. This can help display important
context, such as past work, dependencies, or duplicates.

### Crosslinking issues

You can [crosslink issues](crosslinking_issues.md) by referencing an issue from another
issue or merge request by including its URL or ID. The referenced issue displays a
message in the Activity stream about the reference, with a link to the other issue or MR.

### Similar issues

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/22866) in GitLab 11.6.

To prevent duplication of issues for the same topic, GitLab searches for similar issues
when new issues are being created.

When typing in the title in the **New Issue** page, GitLab searches titles and descriptions
across all issues the user has access to in the current project. Up 5 similar issues,
sorted by most recently updated, are displayed below the title box. Note that this feature
requires [GraphQL](../../../api/graphql/index.md) to be enabled.

![Similar issues](img/similar_issues.png)

## Other Issue actions

- [Create an issue from a template](../../project/description_templates.md#using-the-templates)
- [Set a due date](due_dates.md)
- [Bulk edit issues](../bulk_editing.md) - From the Issues List, select multiple issues
  in order to change their status, assignee, milestone, or labels in bulk.
- [Import issues](csv_import.md)
- [Export issues](csv_export.md) **(STARTER)**
- [Issues API](../../../api/issues.md)
- Configure an [external issue tracker](../../../integration/external-issue-tracker.md)
  such as Jira, Redmine, or Bugzilla.

Commit message:

Add documentation for Design Management feature
https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/issues/64243

doc/user/project/issues/index.md, after:

# Issues

Issues are the fundamental medium for collaborating on ideas and planning work in GitLab.

## Overview

The GitLab issue tracker is an advanced tool for collaboratively developing ideas, solving problems, and planning work.

Issues can allow you, your team, and your collaborators to share and discuss proposals
before, and during, their implementation. However, they can be used for a variety of
other purposes, customized to your needs and workflow.

Issues are always associated with a specific project, but if you have multiple projects in a group,
you can also view all the issues collectively at the group level.

**Common use cases include:**

- Discussing the implementation of a new idea
- Tracking tasks and work status
- Accepting feature proposals, questions, support requests, or bug reports
- Elaborating on new code implementations

See also [Always start a discussion with an issue](https://about.gitlab.com/2016/03/03/start-with-an-issue/).

## Parts of an issue

Issues contain a variety of content and metadata, enabling a large range of flexibility
in how they are used. Each issue can contain the following attributes, though not all items
must be set.

<table class="borderless-table fixed-table">
<tr>
    <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Content</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Title</li>
                <li>Description and tasks</li>
                <li>Comments and other activity</li>
            </ul>
            <li>People</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Author</li>
                <li>Assignee(s)</li>
            </ul>
            <li>State</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Status (open/closed)</li>
                <li>Confidentiality</li>
                <li>Tasks (completed vs. outstanding)</li>
            </ul>
        </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
        <ul>
            <li>Planning and tracking</li>
            <ul>
                <li>Milestone</li>
                <li>Due date</li>
                <li>Weight</li>
                <li>Time tracking</li>
                <li>Labels</li>
                <li>Votes</li>
                <li>Reaction emoji</li>
                <li>Linked issues</li>
                <li>Assigned epic</li>
                <li>Unique issue number and URL</li>
            </ul>
       </ul>
    </td>
</tr>
</table>

## Viewing and managing issues

While you can view and manage the full details of an issue on the [issue page](#issue-page),
you can also work with multiple issues at a time using the [Issues List](#issues-list),
[Issue Boards](#issue-boards), Issue references, and [Epics](#epics-ultimate)**(ULTIMATE)**.

Key actions for Issues include:

- [Creating issues](managing_issues.md#create-a-new-issue)
- [Moving issues](managing_issues.md#moving-issues)
- [Closing issues](managing_issues.md#closing-issues)
- [Deleting issues](managing_issues.md#deleting-issues)

### Issue page

![Issue view](img/issues_main_view.png)

On an issue's page, you can view [all aspects of the issue](issue_data_and_actions.md),
and modify them if you you have the necessary [permissions](../../permissions.md).

### Issues list

![Project issues list view](img/project_issues_list_view.png)

On the Issues List, you can view all issues in the current project, or from multiple
projects when opening the Issues List from the higher-level group context. Filter the
issue list with a [search query](../../search/index.md#issues-and-merge-requests-per-project),
including specific metadata, such as label(s), assignees(s), status, and more. From this
view, you can also make certain changes [in bulk](../bulk_editing.md) to the displayed issues.

For more information, see the [Issue Data and Actions](issue_data_and_actions.md) page
for a rundown of all the fields and information in an issue.

For sorting by issue priority, see [Label Priority](../labels.md#label-priority).

### Issue boards

![Issue board](img/issue_board.png)

[Issue boards](../issue_board.md) are Kanban boards with columns that display issues based on their labels
or their assignees**(PREMIUM)**. They offer the flexibility to manage issues using
highly customizable workflows.

You can reorder issues within a column. If you drag an issue card to another column, its
associated label or assignee will change to match that of the new column. The entire
board can also be filtered to only include issues from a certain milestone or an overarching
label.

### Design Management **(PREMIUM)**

With [Design Management](design_management.md), you can upload design
assets to issues and view them all together to easily share and
collaborate with your team.

### Epics **(ULTIMATE)**

[Epics](../../group/epics/index.md) let you manage your portfolio of projects more
efficiently and with less effort by tracking groups of issues that share a theme, across
projects and milestones.

### Related issues **(STARTER)**

You can mark two issues as related, so that when viewing one, the other is always
listed in its [Related Issues](related_issues.md) section. This can help display important
context, such as past work, dependencies, or duplicates.

### Crosslinking issues

You can [crosslink issues](crosslinking_issues.md) by referencing an issue from another
issue or merge request by including its URL or ID. The referenced issue displays a
message in the Activity stream about the reference, with a link to the other issue or MR.

### Similar issues

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-ce/merge_requests/22866) in GitLab 11.6.

To prevent duplication of issues for the same topic, GitLab searches for similar issues
when new issues are being created.

When typing in the title in the **New Issue** page, GitLab searches titles and descriptions
across all issues the user has access to in the current project. Up 5 similar issues,
sorted by most recently updated, are displayed below the title box. Note that this feature
requires [GraphQL](../../../api/graphql/index.md) to be enabled.

![Similar issues](img/similar_issues.png)

## Other Issue actions

- [Create an issue from a template](../../project/description_templates.md#using-the-templates)
- [Set a due date](due_dates.md)
- [Bulk edit issues](../bulk_editing.md) - From the Issues List, select multiple issues
  in order to change their status, assignee, milestone, or labels in bulk.
- [Import issues](csv_import.md)
- [Export issues](csv_export.md) **(STARTER)**
- [Issues API](../../../api/issues.md)
- Configure an [external issue tracker](../../../integration/external-issue-tracker.md)
  such as Jira, Redmine, or Bugzilla.
