doc/api/group_clusters.md, before:

# Group clusters API

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/30213) in GitLab 12.1.

NOTE: **Note:**
User will need at least maintainer access for the group to use these endpoints.

## List group clusters

Returns a list of group clusters.

```plaintext
GET /groups/:id/clusters
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id":18,
    "name":"cluster-1",
    "domain":"example.com",
    "created_at":"2019-01-02T20:18:12.563Z",
    "provider_type":"user",
    "platform_type":"kubernetes",
    "environment_scope":"*",
    "cluster_type":"group_type",
    "user":
    {
      "id":1,
      "name":"Administrator",
      "username":"root",
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
    },
    "platform_kubernetes":
    {
      "api_url":"https://104.197.68.152",
      "authorization_type":"rbac",
      "ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
    },
    "management_project":
    {
      "id":2,
      "description":null,
      "name":"project2",
      "name_with_namespace":"John Doe8 / project2",
      "path":"project2",
      "path_with_namespace":"namespace2/project2",
      "created_at":"2019-10-11T02:55:54.138Z"
    }
  },
  {
    "id":19,
    "name":"cluster-2",
    ...
  }
]
```

## Get a single group cluster

Gets a single group cluster.

```plaintext
GET /groups/:id/clusters/:cluster_id
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `cluster_id` | integer | yes | The ID of the cluster |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/18
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id":18,
  "name":"cluster-1",
  "domain":"example.com",
  "created_at":"2019-01-02T20:18:12.563Z",
  "provider_type":"user",
  "platform_type":"kubernetes",
  "environment_scope":"*",
  "cluster_type":"group_type",
  "user":
  {
    "id":1,
    "name":"Administrator",
    "username":"root",
    "state":"active",
    "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
  },
  "platform_kubernetes":
  {
    "api_url":"https://104.197.68.152",
    "authorization_type":"rbac",
    "ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
  },
  "management_project":
  {
    "id":2,
    "description":null,
    "name":"project2",
    "name_with_namespace":"John Doe8 / project2",
    "path":"project2",
    "path_with_namespace":"namespace2/project2",
    "created_at":"2019-10-11T02:55:54.138Z"
  },
  "group":
  {
    "id":26,
    "name":"group-with-clusters-api",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/group-with-clusters-api"
  }
}
```

## Add existing cluster to group

Adds an existing Kubernetes cluster to the group.

```plaintext
POST /groups/:id/clusters/user
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `name` | string | yes | The name of the cluster |
| `domain` | string | no | The [base domain](../user/group/clusters/index.md#base-domain) of the cluster |
| `management_project_id` | integer | no | The ID of the [management project](../user/clusters/management_project.md) for the cluster |
| `enabled` | boolean | no | Determines if cluster is active or not, defaults to true |
| `managed` | boolean | no | Determines if GitLab will manage namespaces and service accounts for this cluster, defaults to true |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[api_url]` | string | yes | The URL to access the Kubernetes API |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[token]` | string | yes | The token to authenticate against Kubernetes |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[ca_cert]` | string | no | TLS certificate. Required if API is using a self-signed TLS certificate. |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[authorization_type]` | string | no | The cluster authorization type: `rbac`, `abac` or `unknown_authorization`. Defaults to `rbac`. |
| `environment_scope` | string | no | The associated environment to the cluster. Defaults to `*` **(PREMIUM)** |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/user \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request POST --data '{"name":"cluster-5", "platform_kubernetes_attributes":{"api_url":"https://35.111.51.20","token":"12345","ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"}}'
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id":24,
  "name":"cluster-5",
  "created_at":"2019-01-03T21:53:40.610Z",
  "provider_type":"user",
  "platform_type":"kubernetes",
  "environment_scope":"*",
  "cluster_type":"group_type",
  "user":
  {
    "id":1,
    "name":"Administrator",
    "username":"root",
    "state":"active",
    "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
  },
  "platform_kubernetes":
  {
    "api_url":"https://35.111.51.20",
    "authorization_type":"rbac",
    "ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
  },
  "management_project":null,
  "group":
  {
    "id":26,
    "name":"group-with-clusters-api",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root/group-with-clusters-api"
  }
}
```

## Edit group cluster

Updates an existing group cluster.

```plaintext
PUT /groups/:id/clusters/:cluster_id
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `cluster_id` | integer | yes | The ID of the cluster |
| `name` | string | no | The name of the cluster |
| `domain` | string | no | The [base domain](../user/group/clusters/index.md#base-domain) of the cluster |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[api_url]` | string | no | The URL to access the Kubernetes API |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[token]` | string | no | The token to authenticate against Kubernetes |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[ca_cert]` | string | no | TLS certificate. Required if API is using a self-signed TLS certificate. |
| `environment_scope` | string | no | The associated environment to the cluster **(PREMIUM)** |

NOTE: **Note:**
`name`, `api_url`, `ca_cert` and `token` can only be updated if the cluster was added
through the ["Add existing Kubernetes cluster"](../user/project/clusters/add_remove_clusters.md#add-existing-cluster) option or
through the ["Add existing cluster to group"](#add-existing-cluster-to-group) endpoint.

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/24 \
-H "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request PUT --data '{"name":"new-cluster-name","domain":"new-domain.com","api_url":"https://new-api-url.com"}'
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id":24,
  "name":"new-cluster-name",
  "domain":"new-domain.com",
  "created_at":"2019-01-03T21:53:40.610Z",
  "provider_type":"user",
  "platform_type":"kubernetes",
  "environment_scope":"*",
  "cluster_type":"group_type",
  "user":
  {
    "id":1,
    "name":"Administrator",
    "username":"root",
    "state":"active",
    "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
  },
  "platform_kubernetes":
  {
    "api_url":"https://new-api-url.com",
    "authorization_type":"rbac",
    "ca_cert":null
  },
  "management_project":
  {
    "id":2,
    "description":null,
    "name":"project2",
    "name_with_namespace":"John Doe8 / project2",
    "path":"project2",
    "path_with_namespace":"namespace2/project2",
    "created_at":"2019-10-11T02:55:54.138Z"
  },
  "group":
  {
    "id":26,
    "name":"group-with-clusters-api",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/group-with-clusters-api"
  }
}
```

## Delete group cluster

Deletes an existing group cluster.

```plaintext
DELETE /groups/:id/clusters/:cluster_id
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `cluster_id` | integer | yes | The ID of the cluster |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request DELETE --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/23
```

Commit message:

Add management_project_id to POST API, fix docs
The docs for the POST method mention management_project_id but it was
not supported, so we added it to the code.

Conversely, docs for the PUT method were missing management_project_id,
when it was in fact supported, so we added it to the docs.

doc/api/group_clusters.md, after:

# Group clusters API

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-foss/-/merge_requests/30213) in GitLab 12.1.

NOTE: **Note:**
User will need at least maintainer access for the group to use these endpoints.

## List group clusters

Returns a list of group clusters.

```plaintext
GET /groups/:id/clusters
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters
```

Example response:

```json
[
  {
    "id":18,
    "name":"cluster-1",
    "domain":"example.com",
    "created_at":"2019-01-02T20:18:12.563Z",
    "provider_type":"user",
    "platform_type":"kubernetes",
    "environment_scope":"*",
    "cluster_type":"group_type",
    "user":
    {
      "id":1,
      "name":"Administrator",
      "username":"root",
      "state":"active",
      "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
      "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
    },
    "platform_kubernetes":
    {
      "api_url":"https://104.197.68.152",
      "authorization_type":"rbac",
      "ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
    },
    "management_project":
    {
      "id":2,
      "description":null,
      "name":"project2",
      "name_with_namespace":"John Doe8 / project2",
      "path":"project2",
      "path_with_namespace":"namespace2/project2",
      "created_at":"2019-10-11T02:55:54.138Z"
    }
  },
  {
    "id":19,
    "name":"cluster-2",
    ...
  }
]
```

## Get a single group cluster

Gets a single group cluster.

```plaintext
GET /groups/:id/clusters/:cluster_id
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `cluster_id` | integer | yes | The ID of the cluster |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/18
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id":18,
  "name":"cluster-1",
  "domain":"example.com",
  "created_at":"2019-01-02T20:18:12.563Z",
  "provider_type":"user",
  "platform_type":"kubernetes",
  "environment_scope":"*",
  "cluster_type":"group_type",
  "user":
  {
    "id":1,
    "name":"Administrator",
    "username":"root",
    "state":"active",
    "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
  },
  "platform_kubernetes":
  {
    "api_url":"https://104.197.68.152",
    "authorization_type":"rbac",
    "ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
  },
  "management_project":
  {
    "id":2,
    "description":null,
    "name":"project2",
    "name_with_namespace":"John Doe8 / project2",
    "path":"project2",
    "path_with_namespace":"namespace2/project2",
    "created_at":"2019-10-11T02:55:54.138Z"
  },
  "group":
  {
    "id":26,
    "name":"group-with-clusters-api",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/group-with-clusters-api"
  }
}
```

## Add existing cluster to group

Adds an existing Kubernetes cluster to the group.

```plaintext
POST /groups/:id/clusters/user
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `name` | string | yes | The name of the cluster |
| `domain` | string | no | The [base domain](../user/group/clusters/index.md#base-domain) of the cluster |
| `management_project_id` | integer | no | The ID of the [management project](../user/clusters/management_project.md) for the cluster |
| `enabled` | boolean | no | Determines if cluster is active or not, defaults to true |
| `managed` | boolean | no | Determines if GitLab will manage namespaces and service accounts for this cluster, defaults to true |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[api_url]` | string | yes | The URL to access the Kubernetes API |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[token]` | string | yes | The token to authenticate against Kubernetes |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[ca_cert]` | string | no | TLS certificate. Required if API is using a self-signed TLS certificate. |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[authorization_type]` | string | no | The cluster authorization type: `rbac`, `abac` or `unknown_authorization`. Defaults to `rbac`. |
| `environment_scope` | string | no | The associated environment to the cluster. Defaults to `*` **(PREMIUM)** |

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/user \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request POST --data '{"name":"cluster-5", "platform_kubernetes_attributes":{"api_url":"https://35.111.51.20","token":"12345","ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"}}'
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id":24,
  "name":"cluster-5",
  "created_at":"2019-01-03T21:53:40.610Z",
  "provider_type":"user",
  "platform_type":"kubernetes",
  "environment_scope":"*",
  "cluster_type":"group_type",
  "user":
  {
    "id":1,
    "name":"Administrator",
    "username":"root",
    "state":"active",
    "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
  },
  "platform_kubernetes":
  {
    "api_url":"https://35.111.51.20",
    "authorization_type":"rbac",
    "ca_cert":"-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\r\nhFiK1L61owwDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAw\r\nLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1YzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM4ZDBj\r\nMB4XDTE4MTIyNzIwMDM1MVoXDTIzMTIyNjIxMDM1MVowLzEtMCsGA1UEAxMkZDA1\r\nYzQ1YjctNzdiMS00NDY0LThjNmEtMTQ0ZDJkZjM.......-----END CERTIFICATE-----"
  },
  "management_project":null,
  "group":
  {
    "id":26,
    "name":"group-with-clusters-api",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root/group-with-clusters-api"
  }
}
```

## Edit group cluster

Updates an existing group cluster.

```plaintext
PUT /groups/:id/clusters/:cluster_id
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `cluster_id` | integer | yes | The ID of the cluster |
| `name` | string | no | The name of the cluster |
| `domain` | string | no | The [base domain](../user/group/clusters/index.md#base-domain) of the cluster |
| `management_project_id` | integer | no | The ID of the [management project](../user/clusters/management_project.md) for the cluster |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[api_url]` | string | no | The URL to access the Kubernetes API |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[token]` | string | no | The token to authenticate against Kubernetes |
| `platform_kubernetes_attributes[ca_cert]` | string | no | TLS certificate. Required if API is using a self-signed TLS certificate. |
| `environment_scope` | string | no | The associated environment to the cluster **(PREMIUM)** |

NOTE: **Note:**
`name`, `api_url`, `ca_cert` and `token` can only be updated if the cluster was added
through the ["Add existing Kubernetes cluster"](../user/project/clusters/add_remove_clusters.md#add-existing-cluster) option or
through the ["Add existing cluster to group"](#add-existing-cluster-to-group) endpoint.

Example request:

```shell
curl --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/24 \
-H "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request PUT --data '{"name":"new-cluster-name","domain":"new-domain.com","api_url":"https://new-api-url.com"}'
```

Example response:

```json
{
  "id":24,
  "name":"new-cluster-name",
  "domain":"new-domain.com",
  "created_at":"2019-01-03T21:53:40.610Z",
  "provider_type":"user",
  "platform_type":"kubernetes",
  "environment_scope":"*",
  "cluster_type":"group_type",
  "user":
  {
    "id":1,
    "name":"Administrator",
    "username":"root",
    "state":"active",
    "avatar_url":"https://www.gravatar.com/avatar/4249f4df72b..",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/root"
  },
  "platform_kubernetes":
  {
    "api_url":"https://new-api-url.com",
    "authorization_type":"rbac",
    "ca_cert":null
  },
  "management_project":
  {
    "id":2,
    "description":null,
    "name":"project2",
    "name_with_namespace":"John Doe8 / project2",
    "path":"project2",
    "path_with_namespace":"namespace2/project2",
    "created_at":"2019-10-11T02:55:54.138Z"
  },
  "group":
  {
    "id":26,
    "name":"group-with-clusters-api",
    "web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/group-with-clusters-api"
  }
}
```

## Delete group cluster

Deletes an existing group cluster.

```plaintext
DELETE /groups/:id/clusters/:cluster_id
```

Parameters:

| Attribute | Type | Required | Description |
| --------- | ---- | -------- | ----------- |
| `id` | integer/string | yes | The ID or [URL-encoded path of the group](README.md#namespaced-path-encoding) |
| `cluster_id` | integer | yes | The ID of the cluster |

Example request:

```shell
curl --request DELETE --header 'Private-Token: <your_access_token>' https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/groups/26/clusters/23
```
