doc/ci/merge_request_pipelines/pipelines_for_merged_results/index.md, before:

---
type: reference
last_update: 2019-07-03
---

# Pipelines for Merged Results **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/7380) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.10.

When you submit a merge request, you are requesting to merge changes from a
source branch into a target branch. By default, the CI pipeline runs jobs
against the source branch.

With *pipelines for merged results*, the pipeline runs as if the changes from
the source branch have already been merged into the target branch.

If the pipeline fails due to a problem in the target branch, you can wait until the
target is fixed and re-run the pipeline.
This new pipeline will run as if the source is merged with the updated target, and you
will not need to rebase.

The pipeline does not automatically run when the target branch changes. Only changes
to the source branch trigger a new pipeline. If a long time has passed since the last successful
pipeline, you may want to re-run it before merge, to ensure that the source changes
can still be successfully merged into the target.

When the merge request can't be merged, the pipeline runs against the source branch only. For example, when:

- The target branch has changes that conflict with the changes in the source branch.
- The merge request is a
  [work in progress](../../../user/project/merge_requests/work_in_progress_merge_requests.md).

In these cases, the pipeline runs as a [pipeline for merge requests](../index.md)
and is labeled as `detached`. If these cases no longer exist, new pipelines will
again run against the merged results.

## Requirements and limitations

Pipelines for merged results have the following requirements and limitations:

- Pipelines for merged results require [GitLab Runner](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-runner) 11.9 or newer.
- Forking/cross-repo workflows are not currently supported. To follow progress,
  see [#11934](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/11934).
- This feature is not available for
  [fast forward merges](../../../user/project/merge_requests/fast_forward_merge.md) yet.
  To follow progress, see [#58226](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/26996).

## Enable pipelines for merged results

To enable pipelines for merged results for your project:

1. [Configure your CI/CD configuration file](../index.md#configuring-pipelines-for-merge-requests)
   so that the pipeline or individual jobs run for merge requests.
1. Visit your project's **Settings > General** and expand **Merge requests**.
1. Check **Merge pipelines will try to validate the post-merge result prior to merging**.
1. Click **Save changes**.

CAUTION: **Caution:**
If you select the check box but don't configure your CI/CD to use
pipelines for merge requests, your merge requests may become stuck in an
unresolved state or your pipelines may be dropped.

## Using Merge Trains

When you enable [Pipelines for merged results](#pipelines-for-merged-results-premium),
GitLab [automatically displays](merge_trains/index.md#add-a-merge-request-to-a-merge-train)
a **Start/Add Merge Train button**.

Generally, this is a safer option than merging merge requests immediately, because your
merge request will be evaluated with an expected post-merge result before the actual
merge happens.

For more information, read the [documentation on Merge Trains](merge_trains/index.md).

## Automatic pipeline cancelation

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/12996) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.3.

GitLab CI/CD can detect the presence of redundant pipelines,
and will cancel them automatically in order to conserve CI resources.

When a user merges a merge request immediately within an ongoing merge
train, the train will be reconstructed, as it will recreate the expected
post-merge commit and pipeline. In this case, the merge train may already
have pipelines running against the previous expected post-merge commit.
These pipelines are considered redundant and will be automatically
canceled.

## Troubleshooting

### Pipelines for merged results not created even with new change pushed to merge request

Can be caused by some disabled feature flags. Please make sure that
the following feature flags are enabled on your GitLab instance:

- `:merge_ref_auto_sync`

To check and set these feature flag values, please ask an administrator to:

1. Log into the Rails console of the GitLab instance:

   ```shell
   sudo gitlab-rails console
   ```

1. Check if the flags are enabled or not:

   ```ruby
   Feature.enabled?(:merge_ref_auto_sync)
   ```

1. If needed, enable the feature flags:

   ```ruby
   Feature.enable(:merge_ref_auto_sync)
   ```

### Intermittently pipelines fail by `fatal: reference is not a tree:` error

Since pipelines for merged results are a run on a merge ref of a merge request
(`refs/merge-requests/<iid>/merge`), the Git reference could be overwritten at an
unexpected timing. For example, when a source or target branch is advanced.
In this case, the pipeline fails because of `fatal: reference is not a tree:` error,
which indicates that the checkout-SHA is not found in the merge ref.

This behavior was improved at GitLab 12.4 by introducing [Persistent pipeline refs](../../pipelines/index.md#troubleshooting-fatal-reference-is-not-a-tree).
You should be able to create pipelines at any timings without concerning the error.

Commit message:

Docs added permissions
Related to: https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/29850

doc/ci/merge_request_pipelines/pipelines_for_merged_results/index.md, after:

---
type: reference
last_update: 2019-07-03
---

# Pipelines for Merged Results **(PREMIUM)**

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/7380) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 11.10.

When you submit a merge request, you are requesting to merge changes from a
source branch into a target branch. By default, the CI pipeline runs jobs
against the source branch.

With *pipelines for merged results*, the pipeline runs as if the changes from
the source branch have already been merged into the target branch.

If the pipeline fails due to a problem in the target branch, you can wait until the
target is fixed and re-run the pipeline.
This new pipeline will run as if the source is merged with the updated target, and you
will not need to rebase.

The pipeline does not automatically run when the target branch changes. Only changes
to the source branch trigger a new pipeline. If a long time has passed since the last successful
pipeline, you may want to re-run it before merge, to ensure that the source changes
can still be successfully merged into the target.

When the merge request can't be merged, the pipeline runs against the source branch only. For example, when:

- The target branch has changes that conflict with the changes in the source branch.
- The merge request is a
  [work in progress](../../../user/project/merge_requests/work_in_progress_merge_requests.md).

In these cases, the pipeline runs as a [pipeline for merge requests](../index.md)
and is labeled as `detached`. If these cases no longer exist, new pipelines will
again run against the merged results.

Any user who has developer [permissions](../../../user/permissions.md) can run a
pipeline for merged results.

## Prerequisites

To enable pipelines for merge results:

- You must have maintainer [permissions](../../../user/permissions.md).
- You must be using [GitLab Runner](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-runner) 11.9 or later.
- You must not be forking or using cross-repo workflows. To follow progress,
  see [#11934](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/11934).
- You must not be using
  [fast forward merges](../../../user/project/merge_requests/fast_forward_merge.md) yet.
  To follow progress, see [#58226](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/26996).

## Enable pipelines for merged results

To enable pipelines for merged results for your project:

1. [Configure your CI/CD configuration file](../index.md#configuring-pipelines-for-merge-requests)
   so that the pipeline or individual jobs run for merge requests.
1. Visit your project's **Settings > General** and expand **Merge requests**.
1. Check **Merge pipelines will try to validate the post-merge result prior to merging**.
1. Click **Save changes**.

CAUTION: **Caution:**
If you select the check box but don't configure your CI/CD to use
pipelines for merge requests, your merge requests may become stuck in an
unresolved state or your pipelines may be dropped.

## Using Merge Trains

When you enable [Pipelines for merged results](#pipelines-for-merged-results-premium),
GitLab [automatically displays](merge_trains/index.md#add-a-merge-request-to-a-merge-train)
a **Start/Add Merge Train button**.

Generally, this is a safer option than merging merge requests immediately, because your
merge request will be evaluated with an expected post-merge result before the actual
merge happens.

For more information, read the [documentation on Merge Trains](merge_trains/index.md).

## Automatic pipeline cancelation

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/issues/12996) in [GitLab Premium](https://about.gitlab.com/pricing/) 12.3.

GitLab CI/CD can detect the presence of redundant pipelines,
and will cancel them automatically in order to conserve CI resources.

When a user merges a merge request immediately within an ongoing merge
train, the train will be reconstructed, as it will recreate the expected
post-merge commit and pipeline. In this case, the merge train may already
have pipelines running against the previous expected post-merge commit.
These pipelines are considered redundant and will be automatically
canceled.

## Troubleshooting

### Pipelines for merged results not created even with new change pushed to merge request

Can be caused by some disabled feature flags. Please make sure that
the following feature flags are enabled on your GitLab instance:

- `:merge_ref_auto_sync`

To check and set these feature flag values, please ask an administrator to:

1. Log into the Rails console of the GitLab instance:

   ```shell
   sudo gitlab-rails console
   ```

1. Check if the flags are enabled or not:

   ```ruby
   Feature.enabled?(:merge_ref_auto_sync)
   ```

1. If needed, enable the feature flags:

   ```ruby
   Feature.enable(:merge_ref_auto_sync)
   ```

### Intermittently pipelines fail by `fatal: reference is not a tree:` error

Since pipelines for merged results are a run on a merge ref of a merge request
(`refs/merge-requests/<iid>/merge`), the Git reference could be overwritten at an
unexpected timing. For example, when a source or target branch is advanced.
In this case, the pipeline fails because of `fatal: reference is not a tree:` error,
which indicates that the checkout-SHA is not found in the merge ref.

This behavior was improved at GitLab 12.4 by introducing [Persistent pipeline refs](../../pipelines/index.md#troubleshooting-fatal-reference-is-not-a-tree).
You should be able to create pipelines at any timings without concerning the error.
